REQUIREMENTS

PhpWiki requires a web server with PHP version 4.0.5? or greater and a
database application.

(PhpWiki uses the array_search() function which is present only in PHP
version 4.0.5 or greater.)


QUICK START INSTRUCTIONS

By default PhpWiki is configured to use a flatfile database. If there
is no dbm on your system, you will see an error like this the first
time you try to use PhpWiki:
 
    "Fatal error: Call to undefined function: dba_open() in 
     phpwiki/lib/DbaDatabase.php on line 32"

To correct this you will have to install a dbm package or preferably
an sql-compatible database such as MySQL or PostgreSQL and make the
necessary configuration changes to index.php.


Since version 1.3.0 PhpWiki uses the 'DB.php' from PEAR, a database
absraction layer which is part of PHP. PEAR must be installed and
enabled too. If PHP cannot find it's 'DB.php', the first time you try
to use PhpWiki you will see an error like this:

    "lib/FileFinder.php:82: Fatal[256]: DB.php: file not found"

To fix this, locate the file 'DB.php' on your system, then uncomment
and modify the "ini_set" line in part zero of 'index.php':

    ini_set('include_path', '.:/my/location/of/pear/directory');

For more information about PEAR see <http://pear.php.net/>.


You need the Perl regular expressions package compiled in; this is the
default for PHP, so you probably have it. If you don't you'll see an
error like "function preg_replace() not defined."


INSTRUCTIONS

Below are the instructions for the "out of the box" installation,
which uses DB files. If you are using a relational database like
MySQL, see the INSTALL file for your database in the 'doc/' directory
under the root of your PhpWiki installation.


0. INSTALLATION

Untar / gzip this file into the directory where you want it to
live. That's it.

bash$ gzip -d phpwiki-X.XX.tar.gz
bash$ tar -xvf phpwiki-X.XX.tar

Look at 'index.php' and edit the settings there to your liking.


1. CONFIGURATION

The first time you run this Wiki it will load a set of basic pages
from the 'pgsrc/' directory. These should be enough to get your Wiki
started.

PhpWiki will create some DBM files in '/tmp'. They contain the pages
of the live site, archived pages, and some additional information.

If you don't want the DBM files to live in '/tmp' you must make sure
the web server can read/write to your chosen location.  It's probably
a bad idea to leave it in '/tmp', so change it in 'index.php'.

WARNING: on many systems, files in '/tmp' are subject to periodic
         removal. We very strongly advise you to move the files to
         another directory.

For example, create a subdirectory called 'pages' in the 'phpwiki'
directory which was made when you untarred PhpWiki. Move the DBM files
there. The files should already have proper rights and owners, as they
were created by the web server. If not, change the permissions
accordingly so your web server can read / write the DBM files. Note
that you must be root to move files created by the web server.

Next you must ensure that the web server can access the 'pages'
directory and can create new files in it. For example, if your web
server runs as user 'nobody', give the web server access like this:

bash$ chown nobody:youraccount pages
bash$ chmod 755 pages

This is necessary so that the server can also create / set the
database lock file (PHP has a built in locking mechanism for DBM file
access).  Or if you're really lazy and don't worry much about
security:

bash$ chmod 777 pages

Note: This is insecure. The proper way is to let the directory be
      owned by the web servers GUID and give it read and write access.



2. ALLOWING EMBEDDED HTML

PhpWiki ships with this feature disabled by default. According to
CERT, malicious users can embed HTML in your pages that allow pure
evil to happen:

    <http://www.cert.org/advisories/CA-2000-02.html>

Set the ENABLE_RAW_HTML to true in 'lib/plugin/RawHtml.php' to allow
embedded HTML, but you should NEVER do this if your Wiki is publicly
accessible!

define('ENABLE_RAW_HTML', true);


3. ETC

Installing PHP is beyond the scope of this document :-) You should
visit <http://www.php.net/> if you don't have PHP. Note that you
should have the web server configured to allow index.php as the root
document of a directory.

4. PATCHES

Post patches to:
    <http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=6121&atid=306121>

5. BUGS

Post bugs to:
    <http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=6121&atid=106121>

6. SUPPORT

For support from the PhpWiki team and user community post to:
    <phpwiki-talk@lists.sourceforge.net>

You can join this list at:
    <http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/phpwiki-talk>

FIN

$Id: INSTALL,v 1.16 2002/02/23 23:31:19 carstenklapp Exp $